-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512



# PGP Signature Policy

These are the policies according to which I will sign your key with my own key:

    pub   4096R/6ADBD5B7 2014-08-01 
          Key fingerprint = F057 A0D6 CAC6 2E12 75EF  9E24 7C43 853E 6ADB D5B7


The purpose of a signature policy is to write down your own interpretation of
RFC2440, Section 5.2.1 "Signature Types", which defines four different
certification levels, 0x10, 0x11, 0x12 and 0x13 (commonly numbered in PGP user
interfaces from 0 to 3); this section states the general idea of how to use the
signature types (also referred to as "Certification Levels"), but it leaves room
for interpretation and to some it even contradicts the general idea of when
and how to sign a key.

It's a good idea to also base your trust on signature policies. Someone who
transparently declares when and how he signs a key, is probably trustworthier
(especially if his declarations are reasonable) than a signature by someone
where you don't know how it was signed.



# Certification levels

My interpretation of the certification levels and how I use them, are as
follows:

0x10
	This level states, that the signatory doesn't want to give any statement
	on how thorough he verified the key and how sure he is about that
	person being who he is.

	I see no reason in keeping it a secret about how sure I am, that a
	person actually is who he states he is and the only time I cannot tell
	is when I didn't actually check. That totally counters the general idea
	of signing keys, so I'll *never* use this level

0x11
	This level states that you don't know the person and you didn't verify
	the identity, but you are still pretty certain that it is the person
	you suspect. 

	I understand "persona certification" as a third person, whom I deeply
	trust. This third person is absolutely certain, that the person in
	question is who he pretends to be. So only if someone I deeply trust
	assures me, that a person is who he is, and if additionally it is
	impossible for me to meet this person, will I use certification level
	1. I think this case will be highly improbable for me, so I'll hardly
	ever use this level.

0x12
	In the RFC2449 this level is called "Casual certification" while the
	next is "Substantial certification". 
	
	I don't know, how to "casually" check an ID of a person. If I issue
	this signature (this will be the majority of signatures), I will have
	looked at an officially issued ID, I will have checked that the ID
	looks genuine as thoroughly as possible, and I will also check the key
	fingerprint and email address before signing.

0x13
	To be able to create a "Substantial Certification", I would really have
	to know that the person is, who he says he is. This will be impossible
	with most persons, as everybody can just pretend to be someone they are
	not. I'm also no expert in detecting forged documents, etc.

	So this level is reserved for people that I believe to *really* know.
	This is true for people, with whom I grew up and knew my "whole life",
	so only long-time best friends and family will get a level three
	signature. 

There will be no exceptions to this policy so if you want a signature, and you
don't fall into the levels 0x11 or 0x13 you'll have to visit me with a valid ID
and present me your fingerprint and UID personally (see Protocol).

If applicable and reasonable, I will add a notation to the signature, stating
under which circumstances I verified your identity (e.g. if it happened on
fairs, conferences or key-signing parties).



# Protocol

If you want me to sign your key, we will have to meet in person, and you will
need to provide following information, that you'll have to prepare before the
meeting:

* A paper (at least DIN A5) with these information on it:
  - your PGP key's entire fingerprint (not just the ID!)
  - the associated UIDs you want me to sign (they have to match with your name)
  - the email address you want your signatures send to 
  - the location where I will be able to get your key
  You'll prepare this paper for me, so please make it clean and readable and
  leave room so I can take notes (see below).
* Identity Documents. If you have more than one that's preferable. At least one
  of them must be government issued photo ID that's still valid! Also, please
  tell me beforehand, what kind of documents you'll bring, so I can prepare for
  it, i.e. I cannot check a non-German document I've never seen before.
* Information about your demands for cross-signing.

After contacting me and preparing the documents, we'll meet in person under
"reasonable circumstances". To me, this means that you'll have time for at
least half an hour - I will not sign anything in a hurry. Also we meet at a
location that is suitable, e.g. not in a discotheque or on a subway or
anything, but a calm place with space to sit down and take notes. A public
place with a bench, a café etc. will suffice.

I will then check your photo ID against your appearance and against your UID. I
won't sign a key where there is no UID that matches your documents. I will make
notes on the paper you prepared, about where and when we met, and what
documents you provided to me. I will also ask you for a signature on the paper,
and check it against the one on your documents.

You'll be allowed to do the same - as mentioned, give me all the information
you need from me for checking my identity and I'll be prepared as well.

After we are both satisfied that we are, who we claim we are, I'll take the
paper home and get your key from the specified location. I will check the
fingerprint you provided me against the key, I'll check the UIDs you provided
me against the key, and if you have a photograph, I'll check that as well. If
everything is in order, I will sign your keys, and provide the signature to you
as specified by you (i.e. via mail or key server upload).



# Data privacy

The document you provided me will be kept save all times, i.e. I will not show
it to any third party, nor will I digitalize it, upload it anywhere or copy it.
As mentioned, it will contain the information you provided (UID, email
addresses, fingerprints, key locations), notes I make (i.e. what documents you
provided, for clarifying things that may come up during our meeting), any
further notes I consider important and your signature. You are free to check my
notes, before allowing me to take that paper home.  I have access to a document
shredder which according to DIN 32757 has security level 3, which is
recommended for confidential documents, and once I have signed your key and
don't need the paper anymore, I'll destroy it with that shredder.



# Location

I live in Bremen, Germany and sometimes I am also in Hamburg or
Schleswig-Holstein. I sometimes also visit different events around Germany
(BarCamps, EasterHegg, Linux-Days, Hackerspace events, etc.), so you could
always ask me if I'm on a certain event.  I'm otherwise bound to public
transportation, so please be aware of that. I'm also a huge fan of Cafés, so
Cafés as a meeting location are preferred ;) I also take part in Key Signing
Parties (KSP). Please prepare for a KSP according to the hosts rules, not to
mine! If you want me to join a KSP,  please feel free to send me an invitation.  



# Verification

You can verify the integrity and authentic of this document by calling

    gpg --verify key-signing-policy.txt

Sincerely,

    Kannan Thambiah


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=bEOR
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
